you want to make sales on Tik Tok but
feel like you might have missed the boat
or maybe you feel like it's still too
early for you to get on Tik Tok because
it's really only for kids and teens well
let me start by just saying that neither
of those two things are true it is
possible to build a successful following
and business on Tik Tok in fact 58% of
Tik Tok users find new companies and
products from Tik Tok 44% of people make
immediate purchasing decisions based off
the videos they see on Tik toks on
average Tik Tok users spend 14% more
money when Tik Tok is a part of their
purchase Journey that's pretty
impressive this one is the most powerful
especially for those of you who already
are active on other platforms and you're
watching this but you're like eh I'm not
sure if I really even want to get on Tik
Tok on average Tik Tok users spend 14%
more money when Tik Tok is a part of
their purchase Journey so if someone
follows you on both Tik Tok and on
Instagram and Tik Tok becomes a part of
that purchase Journey where they build
trust with you and they learn more about
your products or your services on
average they will spend 14% more money
that's pretty impressive also when it
comes to the whole age demographic thing
with Tik Tok Tik Tok is already skewing
older than Facebook and Instagram when
they were the same age as Tik Tok Tik
Tok now is about 5 or 6 years old and
when Instagram was 5 or 6 years old and
when Facebook was about 5 or 6 years old
they had less users who were over the
age of 40 50 and 60 than Tik Tok already
does so there's absolutely a market for
every audience on Tik Tok there are
plenty of people millions of people over
the age of 40 50 60 70 even even 80 year
olds and some 90y olds who are crushing
it with their business or their brand on
Tik Tok so it's absolutely possible and
that demographic of people is absolutely
using Tik Tok now I would be lying to
you if I said that there were more baby
boomers on Tik Tok than there were on
Facebook that's just not true but I
think it's also not true to look at it
as a complete opposite where there are
no Baby Boomers and there's only teens
and Millennials who are just twerking
and making lip sync videos but who am I
what's my credibility to talk about Tik
Tok growing and making sales on Tik Tok
I originally got started on Tik Tok in
2019 and I very quickly grew to over
320,000 followers on Tik Tok I had
numerous videos with over a million
views and I think even a handful of
videos that crossed the 10 million view
Mark and from that I was able to quickly
pivot and create a course about how to
grow and how to make sales on Tik Tok
and I was able to leverage a lot of my
Tik Tok following to feed into my
Instagram following which is ultimately
where I've nurtured a lot of those
followers and turned them from just
followers into actual customers now that
was back a few years ago and over the
course of those few years I changed my
Niche a few times I was really struggled
with consistency on that large Tik Tok
account and because of numerous reasons
that we don't need to dive into in this
episode because I've dived into it or
dove into it in previous episodes of
build your tribe I decided to start over
I decided to create a new Tik Tok
account I started that at the end of
2023 I started posting on it
consistantly here in 2024 and I've
started to see some serious results
already just in the first few months of
this year in fact in just the last 2
months I've had videos with views of
over half a million 800,000 and 1.3
million views and that's allowed me to
grow from less than 100 followers the
beginning of the year to now over 3,000
followers in just a few months and I
know what you might be thinking 3,000
followers that's it don't you have way
more on Instagram yes I do have 700,000
followers on Instagram but in just a few
months without Tik Tok even being my
main priority having multiple viral
videos and growing to over 3,000
followers for me is a win and more
important than the quantity of followers
that I have on Tik Tok the quality of
followers that I have on Tik Tok is
really awesome and honestly a little bit
surprising my engagement rate is super
high the amount of views and likes that
I receive on every single post is very
high compared to the number of followers
that I have and most important of all
the number of comments that I'm getting
genuine thoughtful comments that I'm
able to interact with respond to people
who are asking genuine questions or who
are just very complimentary or who are
telling me that they're going to hop
over to Instagram to learn more about
becoming a customer is very surprising
and so even without having hundreds of
thousands of followers on Tik Tok I've
already seen a surprising return on
investment from the followers that I do
have now how do you grow a business and
start making sales on Tik Tok step
number one and step number two are the
same as pretty much every social media
platform so I'm not going to go deep
into these but step number one is to
pick your Niche identify your topic your
subject that you're going to be focusing
on again I don't need to go deep into
the why or the how because we actually
did an episode of build your tribe just
a few weeks ago about that just a few
weeks ago my mom did an episode called
watch this to pick your Niche obviously
that one will help you with identifying
your Niche on social media and she also
did one about a month or two ago that
was called how to find what you were
meant to do finding your thing is kind
of the subtitle of that figuring out
what your topic is what it is that
you're not just going to post about but
what you're going to promote sell or
offer on social media as a whole of
course for our conversation today you
can apply it to Tik Tok step number two
is to optimize your profile in short
basically you need to have a storefront
set up before the customers can start
walking in you need to make sure you
have the profile picture the username
the bio the Linkin bio all of that
should be set up before you can even
think about getting customers step one
and step two are kind of the obvious
things they're the things you hear about
all the time they're not that specific
and really they can be applied to pretty
much any social network now let's get
into the actual algorithm changes that
have taken place on Tik Tok in 2024 and
how you can use them to grow a following
and transition those followers into
customers but before we get into that
something that hasn't changed and is
absolutely still true on Tik Tok today
and has been true on Tik Tok really
since the beginning is that consistency
is key and Tik Tok is all about hyper
consistency posting very very frequently
and don't get me wrong you can have
success if you're not posting all the
time you can have videos go viral if you
post once a month or once a week there
are plenty of people who post one time
ever and they go viral I'm not telling
you that that's what you should do but
I'm telling you that that is possible
what I am telling you is that generally
speaking on Tik Tok quantity is King the
quantity of content that you're putting
out absolutely matters and that's
because Tik Tok has what's called a
Content driven algorithm rather than a
social driven algorithm on Instagram
we're very much used to and we expect to
see content from our friends our family
the people we follow we're getting shown
content and recommended content based
off of our social networks based off our
social ties our Social Circles and
that's why Instagram and Facebook have
what's called a social driven algorithm
I've talked about this before but Tik
tok's content driven algorithm operates
differently
on Tik Tok your content is shown and
distributed based off of the quality of
said content so it doesn't matter how
many followers you have it doesn't
matter who your followers follow or who
you follow or who you regularly interact
with all that matters is the content and
that's why on Tik Tok it's not a bad
thing it's actually a good thing to post
more content because that gives you more
opportunities to get recommended more
opportunities for said content to get
distributed to the kind of people you're
going to reach so on Tik Tok I recommend
posting a minimum of three times per day
now if that sounds absolutely crazy if I
just said that and you got chills down
your spine and you know butterflies in
your tummy but not the good butterflies
the bad anxious butterflies what I will
tell you is this if you can't attain
three a day go for two a day or One A
Day and build up go for one every other
day and build up from there but ideally
if your goal is growth if your goal is
growing a business on Tik Tok in 2020 24
and taking it seriously which I hope it
is because that's why you're watching or
listening right now I hope you're not
watching or listening right now just to
feel better about yourself and kill some
time while you're on a walk or on a
commute I hope you're listening to this
because you actually want to take Tik
Tok seriously and if that is the case I
would recommend posting at least three
times per day to your Tik Tok account
now what should those three posts be
this is where the algorithm change is
really going to take root this is where
you might even be surprised to learn
about the new Tik Tok algorithm two of
the three posts should be longer form
content now how long should long form
content be let's call it more than 60
seconds 60 seconds or more let's define
that as long form content on Tik Tok so
67% of your Tik Tok posts are going to
be more than a minute in length and
those videos one of them should be
vertical so the way you typically
consume and create content on your phone
one of them and this might surprise you
should be horizontal AKA sideways AKA
turn your phone on its side and film in
landscape mode rather than portrait mode
post it just like you would a YouTube
video I know this might be surprising
but in February of 2024 Tik Tok began
putting out some notices to a select few
creators explicitly telling these
creators that the algorithm is now going
to be prioritizing and pushing out
videos that are horizontal and this is a
total 180 shift from what we're used to
seeing on Tik Tok we're used to seeing
short form quick vertical videos that's
at least our expectation or The
Stereotype around Tik Tok when now Tik
Tok is trying to shift the narrative
they're trying to emphasize not just
long form videos which they started to
emphasize in 2023 but now long form
horizontal videos essentially a lot of
people have hypothesized myself included
that this is Tik tok's attempt to kind
of cut into YouTube's Market this is Tik
tok's attempt to compete with YouTube
not just in the long form video space
But even in the horizontal long form
video space so again to repeat what I've
already described three posts per day is
your goal and two out of those three
should be longer than 60 seconds when
you're doing these long form videos on
Tik Tok I want you to remember that less
is more when it comes to editing while
you might watch YouTube videos that are
super chopped up and they have lots of
cuts and b-roll and transitions you
might watch Instagram reals that feel
like that there every half a second
there's a new cut there's a new like
caption on the screen there's things
coming at your face sound effects all
this stuff hyperedited the opposite is
what is working on Tik Tok so on Tik Tok
it should feel almost like an Instagram
story if that makes sense where it's
very uh free flowing raw organic there's
tangents there's sidebars there's
storytelling all of these components are
mixed in without having a lot of editing
and in my experience this makes it a lot
easier to post on Tik Tik Tok because
while on Instagram I Outsource my reals
editing I have a an entire editor who is
a professional and I send her my content
she chops them up for my reals my Tik
toks I don't edit them at all all I do
is I trim out the beginnings and the
ends so I don't have any you know like
Millennial pauses or any awkward endings
to my videos I just kind of trim off the
beginning and ending of each clip and
besides that the only editing that I'll
do on Tik Tok is ADD en closed captions
and that's really all I recommend for
you less is more with your editing on
Tik Tok and hopefully that makes a
little bit easier for you to stay
consistent and post more often on Tik
Tok now you might be wondering what is
the Third Kind of post again I recommend
three a day two long form one of the
long form is vertical one of the long
form horizontal the Third Kind of post
that I would recommend doing is the kind
of classic trending audio something
that's popular uh something that's a
meme or a lip sync or some sort of quick
dance if that fits you in your brand you
don't have to dance though but just
something that is trending or popular
because leveraging these Trends is a
very easy to create B very quick to
create and see if you strike just right
if the trend is just popular enough and
you catch that wave at the right time
you can ride it and you can go viral and
have a lot of success get a lot of new
eyeballs from a video that's really
short so now that we've gone over what
to post and how frequently you should
post let's talk about how do you
actually post like what goes into the
post what makes it a quality post that
you can have success and then start to
build these relationships which builds
trust which then builds customers out of
your followers first I've already
mentioned this one a little bit but
start mixing in more storytelling into
your content the vast majority of your
Tik Tok content should be aligned with
your Niche and it should appeal to your
ideal follower however on Tik Tok
because these are longer form videos a
lot of the time you can start to mix in
more of your personality more of your
interests more of your passions more of
your hobbies more things that are non-
Niche related and you can do this
creatively so that even though you're
talking about something that isn't Niche
related you can relate it back to your
Niche and thus reveal parts of yourself
yet still appeal to your audience who
maybe isn't interested in those things
but is still interested in your Niche
that was kind of abstract so let me give
you an example snowboarding is not my
Niche I talk about growing on social
media I teach people how to make money
on in and Tik Tok and YouTube
snowboarding doesn't really have
anything to do with that however I could
talk about snowboarding and use
storytelling from my life experiences of
snowboarding which I love to do and I do
all the time in the winter and I could
relate it back to growing on social
media or building a business so for
example maybe I could talk about how the
first couple days of snowboarding is
very rough you're going to fall on your
butt a bunch you're not going to have a
lot of fun and you're going to be pretty
banged up and you might want to quit and
that can be very similar similar to the
first couple days or the first couple
months or the first couple years of
building a business you're going to get
banged up you're not going to have a lot
of fun you're going to see a lot of
other people who are seemingly blowing
past you way faster than you could ever
imagine there's going to be a lot of
comparison and you might want to quit
pretty early on I could make that
comparison so I can talk about one of my
interests passions or Hobbies AKA
snowboarding and still relate it back to
my Niche I could also create content
talking about how my life as a content
creator as a business owner makes
snowboarding possible something that I
love to do something that I can do
whenever I want to without having to ask
a lot of questions or worrying about
taking sick days or paid time off I can
afford to do that because of the
lifestyle I have created through content
creation and business owning and so in
that way I can relate again an interest
or hobby of mine back to my Niche so how
do you create this long form content
what should you be posting about it
should all be related to your Niche but
I want you to challenge yourself to get
creative by introducing more
storytelling more of your interests more
of your passions and your hobbies and
talking about those things in a way that
you can relate them back to your Niche
now this will absolutely take time it
will absolutely take practice and trial
and error you won't be perfect at this
off the bat but as you start to get
better at this you're going to allow
your audience to get to see all of you
everything that makes you tick all of
your personality things all the things
you like all your hobbies and still care
about your niche as a number one thing
but through doing this you're going to
build true super fans of you and your
brand and your business and of course
through introducing storytelling you're
naturally going to lengthen out your
content because it's very hard to tell
an entire story in 15 to 30 seconds
you're going to need to create some
longer content which we've already
talked about is advantageous now when
we're thinking about the structure of
our content hooks are absolutely
essential hooks are essential on Tik Tok
just like they are on the beginning of a
YouTube or a podcast or an Instagram
or even a book that you're reading a
hook the opening phrase the opening
sentence the opening sound effect or
edit is essential it's how you grab
someone's attention it's how you stand
out in the first 3 seconds from everyone
else and all the other content that your
audience is seeing now while hooks are
very very important something that's
very important on Instagram that I
wouldn't recommend doing a lot of on Tik
Tok is ending your videos with calls to
action I'm not sure what it is I think
it relates back to the Cy iology of the
average Tik Tok user but when you
include a lot of calls to action or
click bity or attention grabby calls to
action in your videos such as don't
forget to like this post save this post
if you found it educational share this
post with a friend while those things
are very helpful and very useful and
very uh effective on Instagram they're
far less so on Tik Tok and I think it's
because it's just not part of the dress
code it's not part of the norm it's not
part of what everyone does and so you
kind of stand out in a negative way when
you're including these calls to action
the one form of call to action that I
have found effective on Tik Tok is
asking open-ended questions or asking
for people's feedback and comments
asking for people to share their
opinions there are exceptions to this
rule there are absolutely times uh where
asking for shares is effective or asking
for saves or likes but generally
speaking from what we've found the only
calls to action that are consistently
effective on Tik Tok is asking
open-ended questions that then generate
comments the next component of your Tik
Tok videos that is very essential and
I've kind of mentioned this one already
when I was talking about the editing
that I do for my Tik toks is closed
captions now Tik Tok has started to
include automatically generated closed
captions and that's awesome but
unfortunately it doesn't always get
added to every video it doesn't always
get added right away it's not always
accessible to everyone who views your
video so so it's best off right before
posting to press the little text button
and then just make sure that you're
adding closed captions to your videos so
that people are consuming on mute or if
people have a hearing disability or
anything like that they can read your
caption and and understand what you're
saying uh without having to just rely on
the auditory experience besides closed
captions let's talk about what goes in
your caption captions generally speaking
most people aren't going to read
captions on Tik Tok it's a very very
small percentage of people who do read
captions and the style of post that's
popular on Instagram where it's like a
super short video and then it just says
read the caption those absolutely do not
perform well on Tik Tok and that's
because on Tik Tok people prefer to
consume the content itself they prefer
to watch the video rather than being
told to read some text Additionally the
experience of reading a caption on Tik
Tok isn't very great it's kind of like a
transparent background the video still
plays in the background it's it's just
not the best experience so generally
generally speaking with all that being
said it's best to keep your captions
short on Tik Tok and I've found that
it's best to ask a question or have some
sort of funny one phrase sentence or on
line sentence um in the caption rather
than trying to make it a really long
drawn out caption in the caption I do
recommend adding three hashtags
approximately you could do two you could
do up to five but generally speaking
let's say two to five hashtags in your
caption and those hashtags this is big
they should relate to the content itself
not to your page but to the content
itself so let me give you an example if
I am posting a Tik Tok video that's
about growing on Instagram and it's
specifically about reals strategies to
grow on Instagram it would be better for
me to use # Instagram reals strategy
reals views strategy hash reals growth
strategy rather than a hashtag that
applies to my page in general but maybe
doesn't specifically describe that post
such as # Instagram growth # Instagram
marketing # Instagram stories while
those might be General topics that I
discuss on my Tik Tok and that might
describe my Niche that doesn't describe
the post itself so when you are writing
your two to five hashtags try to
essentially describe what is this post
talking about if someone were to be
searching hashtags what would I want
them to be searching for in order to
find my post everything we've covered so
far is the essentials for growth you're
going to start with your Niche you're
going to optimize your profile you're
going to post three times a day
including everything that we've talked
about now let's talk about how do you
actually convert how do you transition
someone from a viewer or a follower on
Tik Tok into an actual sale from what
we' found from what I've seen there's
really three main ways that you can do
this number one is you get them to your
Instagram and there's numerous ways to
get someone from your Tik Tok to your
Instagram some of these include number
one having photob based content that's
exclusively on Instagram that you can
talk about or reference on Tik Tok which
then makes someone curious and want to
view your Instagram number two is
exclusive discounts or deals or specials
that are only available through
following you on Instagram that are not
available on Tik Tok number three is
Simply Having a large enough quantity of
followers who care that much about you
on Tik Tok that they also want to follow
you on Instagram and number four is
essentially starting the conversation
the topic the tips the post whatever it
may be on Tik Tok but then finishing it
on Instagram so maybe you're going to
give five tips to become a better rock
climber the first three will be shared
on Tik Tok and the final two tips tip
number four and five will be shared on
Instagram now why would you want to get
someone from Tik Tok to Instagram why
would you want someone going from one
social to another well because of a few
things number one it's much more likely
that someone's going to hop from one
social media to another than it is top
from one social media to something
completely different like a website a
sales page or a purchase page but number
two and more importantly and more
specifically why I'm recommending
switching someone from a Tik Tok
follower to an Instagram follower is
that according to one study by carrot
Financial Instagram followers are seven
times more financially valuable than a
Tik Tok follower in other words someone
is seven times more likely to purchase
something on Instagram than they are on
Tik Tok and this is not an episode about
Instagram we don't need to go into all
the reasons why but really it just boils
down to the direct messages and how much
more uh relevant how much more
applicable how much more available how
much more used the Instagram DMS are
than the Tik Tok DMS besides just
getting them to your Instagram of course
sometimes it is very advantageous for
you to transition someone directly from
Tik Tok to an opt-in page or to a
landing page what we have found most
effective there is rather than hopping
directly from a Tik Tok into a sales
page is get them as a lead first so
simply collect an email maybe even an
email in exchange for a free download or
a free discount account or something
like that as a way to kind of begin this
sales process or begin this customer
Journey much easier than just asking for
their credit card right away one example
that I found effective for myself is I
will teach some sort of strategy maybe
I'm going to teach you how to get more
views on your Instagram stories and then
at the end of that Tik Tok I'm going to
say and if you need 50 Instagram story
ideas head to the link in my bio and you
can find a free list there now of course
this is going to have a relatively low
conversion rate because I'm asking some
to stop their dopamine consumption stop
scrolling through their feed and instead
Go download something but at least
they're getting something in return and
all it costs them is a few seconds in
their email address rather than having
to actually pull out their credit card
and spend some money and then the final
way to convert someone from a follower
into a customer on Tik Tok is by
actually sending them to a landing page
actually sending them to the checkout
page where they're actually going to
spend some money but the only real way
that we found this to be reliably
effective reliably work besides like
going viral and just having a massive
quantity of viewers is through doing
long form content now I know we've
talked a decent amount in today's
episode already about long form content
but over the course of a 3 four five 6 7
Minute video people can really get to
know you a lot more they can build a lot
of trust you can work in more
testimonials more organic promotions you
can talk more about your product and its
benefits you can kind of do almost like
a mini infomercial if you will and so if
someone is willing to watch a multi-e
video with you or of you I should say on
Tik Tok they're much more willing to
then become a customer so if you are
creating long form content that is
multiple minutes long and it is all
about One topic that relates to what
you're offering or selling you could
consider offering someone a next steps
and essentially the idea is if someone
is willing to watch multiple minutes of
a video they might want even more and so
you can tell them if you want to learn
more about said strategies if you want
to get this product for yourself if you
want to try this out yourself go to the
link in my bio to learn more go to the
link in my bio for more tips go to the
link in my bio for 20% off of this
product and in that way you're
essentially making a small sales pitch
at the end of the video where you've
already given them so much I hope you
found today's episode helpful again if
you don't already know your Niche that
is step one for growing on Tik Tok so
make sure to check out some of those
previous episodes that we have already
put out thank you for listening thank
you for watching today and as always
happy
[Music]
networking